# Read - 16 :  AWS: Cloud Servers

## Describe the Web-Request-Response-Cycle

As we start to build out web applications, it is important to be able to visualize the way information flows through the system; typically called the Request/Response Cycle.
First a user gives a client a URL, the client builds a request for information (or resources) to be generated by a server. When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in the request to build a response that contains the requested information. Once built, that response is sent back to the client in the requested format, to be rendered to the user.
It is our job as web developers to build out and maintain servers that can successfully build responses based on standardized requests that will be received. But, what does a standard request look like? We need to know that before we can start building servers that will respond successfully.
The standard, or protocol we use is HTTP.

* HTTP Requests and Responses
The HyperText Transfer Protocol gives us rules about how messages should be sent around the Internet. The system that initiates a connection sends a “request”, and the system the answers sends a “response”.

## Explain what a “server” is, as it relates to the WRRC

On the opposite side of the communication channel, is the server, which serves the document as requested by the client. A server appears as only a single machine virtually: this is because it may actually be a collection of servers, sharing the load (load balancing) or a complex piece of software interrogating other computers (like cache, a DB server, or e-commerce servers), totally or partially generating the document on demand.

## What does it mean to “deploy” an application?

Deploying your application means putting it on a Web server so that it can be used either through the Internet or an intranet. ... To deploy your application onto a production Web server, you need to check: Server Web share paths and application URLs.
